# Caterpillar is upgraded on strong quarterly results — and a misguided sell-off
**Zev Fima**

**2023-10-31 18:25**

**https://www.cnbc.com/2023/10/31/caterpillar-is-upgraded-on-quarterly-results-and-misguided-sell-off-.html**

Caterpillar (CAT) delivered another strong quarterly report on Tuesday before the bell. But shares of the construction-equipment maker are under pressure as some investors appear unhappy with management's forward guidance. We view the dip as a buying opportunity. Revenue in the third quarter increased 12% year over year to $16.8 billion, exceeding estimates of $16.6 billion, according to LSEG. Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) jumped 40% to $5.52, well ahead of estimates of $4.79. Profit margin performance was also well ahead of expectations, driving better-than-expected operating income results Bottom line While some investors seem concerned that the company has reached peak profit margins and a declining backlog of orders for its products going into 2024, we've seen this kind of rush to judgment before. We are impressed with the quarterly numbers, and are eyeing a stock price of $225 as a good place to step in to buy more shares. Shares of CAT were down nearly 6% midday Tuesday to roughly $228. It's true the operating margin is expected to contract a bit from Tuesday's results. That's in line with Wall Street forecasts but the contraction comes from a higher level than previously forecast. To us, this indicates the guidance may be conservative. The backlog decline also comes as no surprise. In our second-quarter analysis , we noted that a decline on the back of supply chain improvements is not cause for concern, especially with demand remaining healthy. Still, investors are concerned about 2024: The first question on Caterpillar's conference call with analysts was about the potential for near-term growth. CEO James Umpleby was quick to call out his expectation for "another good year" in 2024. He added that Caterpillar has already seen "some benefit" from the U.S.'s spending on infrastructure projects and that he expects to see even more next year and beyond. We see nothing here to change our positive outlook on Caterpillar. The sell-off Tuesday isn't warranted, though it is in line with what we've seen the entire earnings season as investors focus on anything even slightly negative as a basis for selling stocks. As a result, we reiterate our $300 price target and are upgrading shares to a 1 rating. Quarterly results While segment results were a bit mixed versus expectations, all three of its main businesses demonstrated healthy sales growth versus the year-ago period. In addition, all three of Caterpillar's physical product segments put up solid operating income growth. On the call, the management team noted that the operating margin strength came as a result of lower-than-expected manufacturing costs, including freight as well as the company's ability to charge slightly higher prices for its equipment. Construction industries sales in the third quarter rose 12% to $7 billion. North America sales were up 31% on an increase in both volume and prices. Umpleby explained that demand remained healthy for nonresidential and residential construction and that nonresidential continued to benefit from government-related infrastructure and construction projects. Latin America sales fell 31% due to lower sales volume that was only partially offset by higher prices. In Europe, Africa and the Middle East, sales were up 8% due to price increases and tailwind from currency dynamics. Sales in its Asia/Pacific segment were down 8% versus the year-ago period on lower sales volume. China is expected to remain weak in the near term. Outside of China, management expects growth thanks to public infrastructure spending and the support of commodity prices. Resource industries sales of $3.35 billion increased by 9%. Segment sales benefited from higher prices that were offset by a decline in sales volume. Higher prices also aided profitability, despite the dual headwinds of lower volumes and an unfavorable product mix. Energy and transportation sales increased 11% to $6.86 billion. Segment profit benefited from higher prices and sales volume, though this was partially offset by higher SG & A and R & D expenses, an increase in manufacturing costs, and a currency headwind. Backlog commentary Caterpillar's order backlog was down $2.6 billion sequentially and $1.9 billion versus the year-ago period. Umpleby had this to say about the backlog, which has been a focus of investors: "Backlog is a function of demand and lead times. As I've mentioned, demand remains healthy in most of our end markets. Due time proving supply chain conditions, product availability and lead times have improved for many products. Dealers and customers can wait longer to place orders which has led to a moderation in order rates as expected." He added that the company's backlog still remains elevated as a percentage of revenues compared to historic levels. Dealer inventories, another forward-looking metric to monitor, increased by about $600 million on a sequential basis driven by strength in construction industries. Caterpillar dealers are independent businesses and are unlikely to increase inventory levels unless they see strong demand continuing. Guidance Management said fourth-quarter sales are expected to be "slightly higher" on an annual basis as pricing remains a tailwind. What slightly higher means exactly is open to interpretation. It's safe to say many investors are questioning if it will be enough to achieve the expected 5.1% annual growth. Dealer inventories are expected to decline as Caterpillar does not expect the seasonal sales increase typically seen from the third to the fourth quarter. But it does still expect dealer inventory in construction industries will be higher at the end of 2023 than it was at the year-end 2022. The adjusted operating profit margin for the fourth quarter is expected to be lower versus the third quarter result. Though we didn't get an exact number, directionally, that's in line with the 17.8% consensus expectation for the fourth quarter. On a full-year basis, Umpleby he expects 2023 to be better than anticipated during the company's last earnings call. Regarding profitability, management expects Caterpillar's the adjusted operating margin to be "slightly above the target range relative to the corresponding expected level sales." As a reminder, Caterpillar provides a chart within its slide deck (page 16) that offers an expected adjusted operating profit margin range given a level of sales. Coming in to Tuesday's results, the consensus estimate on Wall Street was for full-year sales of $67 billion with an adjusted operating profit margin of 19.3%. To hit $67 billion, we need to see fourth-quarter sales increase by at least $420 million, or 2.5%. All told, we believe the operating margin consensus on Wall Street needs an upward revision. For 2023 cash flow, the team now expects machinery, energy & transportation (ME & T) to exceed the $4 billion to $8 billion range previously provided. That's better than the "around the top" commentary we got last quarter. As a reminder, management intends to "return substantially all" ME & T free cash flow to shareholders via dividends and repurchases over time. (Jim Cramer's Charitable Trust is long CAT. See here for a full list of the stocks.) As a subscriber to the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer, you will receive a trade alert before Jim makes a trade. Jim waits 45 minutes after sending a trade alert before buying or selling a stock in his charitable trust's portfolio. If Jim has talked about a stock on CNBC TV, he waits 72 hours after issuing the trade alert before executing the trade. THE ABOVE INVESTING CLUB INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO OUR TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND PRIVACY POLICY , TOGETHER WITH OUR DISCLAIMER . NO FIDUCIARY OBLIGATION OR DUTY EXISTS, OR IS CREATED, BY VIRTUE OF YOUR RECEIPT OF ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTING CLUB. NO SPECIFIC OUTCOME OR PROFIT IS GUARANTEED.

Caterpillar equipment is parked on a lot at Peterson Tractor Co. on July 24, 2019 in San Leandro, California. C

Justin Sullivan | Getty Images

[Caterpillar](https://www.cnbc.com/quotes/CAT/) (CAT) delivered another strong quarterly report on Tuesday before the bell. But shares of the construction-equipment maker are under pressure as some investors appear unhappy with management's forward guidance.